build
=====

`build` is a pretty simple build tool meant to be an upgrade to make.  It
focuses on correcting the following deficiencies I have run into with make:

- If a make recipe fails halfway through, a partially made and incorrect
  artifact will still be produced.  Now make will think the artifact was made
  correctly and not rebuild it.
- If the recipe for an artifact in the Makefile changes, the target won't be
  remade using the new recipe.
- Inputs/outputs of recipes are relatively ad hoc.  You can forget a dependency
  or, and a recipe can produce more artifacts than it intended to, or have
  other unintended effects.
- Parallelism must be manually enabled.  This may be due to Make's lack of
  isolation in build steps.
- A cleaning recipe must be manually written, even though make knows what
  artifacts are generated by Make vs human made.
- No support for watching artifacts, automatically rebuilding them when
  dependencies change.
- No support for running long running processes from artifacts, e.g. an HTTP
  server, that automatically restarts when dependencies change.
- Make isn't very good at producing a directory as a target.

Here is what an example build configuration looks like, stored in a file called
`build.yml`:

	index.css:
		- include node_modules index.scss
		- node_modules/.bin/sass index.scss >index.css

	bundle.js:
		- include node_modules app.ts
		- node_modules/.bin/tslint app.ts
		- node_modules/.bin/tsc --strictNullChecks --noImplicitAny app.ts
		- browserify app.js >bundle.js

	dist:
		- mkdir dist
		- include index.html index.css bundle.js -copy -into dist

	api:
		- include main.go
		- go vet
		- go build -o api

	api.zip:
		- include api
		- zip -9 api.zip api

	serve-dist:
		- include dist
		- serve-http dist :8000

	serve-api:
		- include api
		- ./api -addr :8001

When a recipe is run, it gets its own private temporary build directory, and
can only see artifacts and source files it explicitly includes.  The build tool
uses the include commands to determine the recipe's dependencies, and since the
recipe can only see files it explicitly includes, you can't forget to
explicitly mention a dependency.

A recipe's output is determined by whatever file is left in the build directory
with the artifact's name.  For instance, the recipe for index.css produces the
file index.css.  If the recipe succeeds, this file will be atomically moved to
the real artifact.  If the recipe fails, no artifact will be produced at all.
An artifact can be a file or directory.

Recipes with names starting with `serve-` are special serving recipes.  They
expect their last command to be a long running command, like a webserver.  It
can either be a typical shell command or the built in serve-http command.  A
server recipe will automatically restart and rebuild when changes are made to
any of its sources.

Here are some examples of what the command line could look like:

	# Simply build api.zip and dist, if necessary.
	$ build api.zip dist

	# Automatically rebuilds dist whenever changes are made to sources files.
	$ build -watch dist

	# Serve the dist folder over HTTP; automatically rebuild it whenever its
	# sources change.
	$ build serve-dist

	# Run both serve commands at the same time.  They will be independently
	# restarted/rebuilt if their sources change.
	$ build serve-api serve-dist

	# Clean all files generated by build.
	$ build clean

## Installation ##

If you have go installed, you should just be able to do

	go get github.com/rovaughn/build

## TODO ##

- Recognize build.yml itself as a dependency.  This will be quick to add.
- There are places where error messages could be more clear.
- When depending on a directory, consider the modtimes of all files in the
  directory.
- Automatic recipes based on file extension.  For instance a recipe named
  something like `default.c` would run for any `.c` file that didn't have an
  explicit recipe.
- If multiple commands are running in parallel and emitting output at the same
  time, it would get confusing.
- It might be useful to have a "refine" command.  For instance when gcc
  compiles something, it can tell you exactly what source files it ended up
  using.  You could refine an include so it actually only depends on the files
  that were actually used.
